/////
vim:set ts=4 sw=4 tw=82 noet:
/////
:quotes.~:

sway (1)
========

Name
----
sway - SirCmpwn's Wayland window manager

Synopsis
--------
'sway' [options] [command]

Options
-------

*-h, --help*::
	Show help message and quit.

*-c, \--config* <config>::
	Specifies a config file.

*-C, \--validate*::
	Check the validity of the config file, then exit.

*-d, --debug*::
	Enables full logging, including debug information.

*-v, \--version*::
	Show the version number and quit.

*-V, --verbose*::
	Enables more verbose logging.

*--get-socketpath*::
	Gets the IPC socket path and prints it, then exits.

Description
-----------

sway was created to fill the need of an i3-like window manager for Wayland. The
upstream i3 developers have no intention of porting i3 to Wayland, and projects
proposed by others ended up as vaporware. Many thanks to the i3 folks for
providing such a great piece of software, so good that your users would rather
write an entirely new window manager from scratch that behaved _exactly_ like i3
rather than switch to something else.

You may run sway from an ongoing x11 session to run it within x. Otherwise, you
can run sway on a tty and it will use your outputs directly.

*Important note for nvidia users*: The proprietary nvidia driver does _not_ have
support for Wayland as of 2015-08-17. Use nouveau.

Commands
--------

If sway is currently running, you may run _sway [command]_ to send _command_ to
the running instance of sway. The same commands you would use in the config file
are valid here (see **sway**(5)). For compatibility reasons, you may also issue
commands with **sway-msg**(1) or **i3-msg**(1) (or even with **i3**(1), probably).

Configuration
-------------

If _-c_ is not specified, sway will look in several locations for your config
file. The suggested location for your config file is ~/.config/sway/config.
~/.sway/config will also work, and the rest of the usual XDG config locations
are supported.  If no sway config is found, sway will attempt to load an i3
config from all the config locations i3 supports.  At last, sway looks for a
config file in a fallback directory, which is /etc/sway/ by default. A standard
configuration file is installed at this location.  If still nothing is found,
you will receive an error.

For information on the config file format, see **sway**(5).

Authors
-------

Maintained by Drew DeVault <sir@cmpwn.com>, who is assisted by other open
source contributors. For more information about sway development, see
<https://github.com/SirCmpwn/sway>.

See Also
--------

**sway**(5) **swaymsg**(1) **swaygrab**(1)
